# Introduction to Software Engineering

## Contents

- [Introduction to Software Engineering](#introduction-to-software-engineering)
  - [Contents](#contents)
  - [Key principles of Software Engineering](#key-principles-of-software-engineering)
  - [4 Attributes of Software Engineering](#4-attributes-of-software-engineering)
  - [Evolving Role of Software - Dual Role of Software](#evolving-role-of-software---dual-role-of-software)
    - [1. As a product](#1-as-a-product)
    - [As a vehicle for delivering a product](#as-a-vehicle-for-delivering-a-product)
  - [Changing Nature of Software](#changing-nature-of-software)
  - [Legacy Software](#legacy-software)

**Software** is a program or set of programs containing instructions that provide desired functionality.

**Engineering** is the process of designing and building something that serves a particular purpose and finds a cost-effective solution to problems.

**Software engineering** is the process of designing, developing, testing, and maintaining software. It is a systematic and disciplined approach to software development that aims to create high-quality, reliable, and maintainable software. Software engineering includes a variety of techniques, tools, and methodologies, including requirements analysis, design, testing, and maintenance.

## Key principles of Software Engineering

-   **Modularity :** Breaking the software into smaller, reusable components that can be developed and tested independently.
-   **Abstraction :** Hiding the implementation details of a component and exposing only the necessary functionality to other parts of the software.
-   **Encapsulation :** Wrapping up the data and functions of an object into a single unit, and protecting the internal state of an object from external modifications.
-   **Reusability :** Creating components that can be used in multiple projects, which can save time and resources.
-   **Maintenance :** Regularly updating and improving the software to fix bugs, add new features, and address security vulnerabilities.
-   **Testing :** Verifying that the software meets its requirements and is free of bugs.
-   **Design Patterns :** Solving recurring problems in software design by providing templates for solving them.
-   **Agile Methodologies :** Using iterative and incremental development processes that focus on customer satisfaction, rapid delivery, and flexibility.
-   **Continuous Integration & Deployment :** Continuously integrating the code changes and deploying them into the production environment.

## 4 Attributes of Software Engineering

-   **Efficiency**
-   **Reliability**
-   **Robustness**
-   **Maintainability**

**Software = Program + Documentation + Licensing**

## Evolving Role of Software - Dual Role of Software

Today, software takes on a dual role. It is a **product** and, at the same time, the **vehicle for delivering a product.**

### 1. As a product

-   Delivers the computing potential across networks of Hardware.
-   Enables the Hardware to deliver the expected functionality.
-   Acts as an information transformer because it produces, manages, acquires, modifies, displays, or transmits information.

### As a vehicle for delivering a product

-   Provides system functionality (eg, payroll system)
-   Controls other software (eg, an operating
    system)
-   Helps build other software (eg, software tools)

## Changing Nature of Software

The nature of software has changed a lot over the years.

The different types of softwares are :

-   **System Software :** collection of programs to provide service to other programs. eg, compilers, operating systems, editors, drivers etc
-   **Real time software :** softwares used to monitor, control, and analyze real world events as they occur. eg, softwares for weather forecasting etc.
-   **Embedded software :** place in "Read-Only-Memory (ROM)" of the product and control the various functions of the product. The product can be an aircraft, automobile, security system, signalling system, control unit of power plants, etc.
-   **Business software :** softwares designed to process business applications. eg, management information system, enterprise resource planning (ERP).
-   **Personal computer software** eg word processors, computer graphics, multimedia and animating tools, database management, computer games etc.
-   **Artificial intelligence software :** makes use of non numerical algorithms to solve complex problems that are not amenable to computation or straight forward analysis. eg, expert systems, artificial neural networkm signal processing software etc.
-   **Web based software :** software relate to web applications. eg, cgi, html, java, perl, dhtml etc.

## Legacy Software

**Legacy software** is software that has been around a long time and still fulfills a business need. It is mission critical and tied to a particular version of an operating system or hardware model (vendor lock-in) that has gone end-of-life. Generally the lifespan of the hardware is shorter than that of the software.
